you curious to know about the Star Wars
universe or in need of a refresher
here's everything you need to know
welcome back to your favorite
procrastination station dirty River as
always I'm your host Jordan Lewis we got
a lot to cover so I'm gonna get right
into it I think the first order of
business in understanding the world of
Star Wars is knowing the order in which
these films take place the only thing
that makes this a bit confusing is that
the movies were essentially released out
of order these movies came out in the
form of trilogies but episodes four five
and six came before episodes one two and
three now episodes four or five and six
were caught the original trilogy while
one two and three were called the
prequel trilogy I know I'm saying
trilogy a lot but bear with me now the
most recent trilogy is part of what is
called the sequel trilogy which consists
of episodes seven eight and nine episode
nine hasn't been released yet but it's
set to be released in December of 2019
now there are three important terms to
know in the Star Wars universe so you
won't get confused first the Force which
is like a spiritual power that allows
some people to do cool things such as
move stuff with their minds
secondly the Jedi who were generally the
good guys and lastly the Sith who are
the bad guys who use the force for evil
so here's a fair warning to anyone who
hasn't seen these films as it should be
pretty freakin obvious this
chronological recap contains heavy
spoilers but that's why you're here
anyways so let's get into it starting
with episode 1 The Phantom Menace after
two Jedi are sent to negotiate a trade
dispute between the Galactic Republic
and the Trade Federation they escape
after being set up and end up on a
remote planet called Tatooine where they
meet a slave boy named Anakin Skywalker
the older Jedi qui-gon jinn senses the
force in this young boy after the boy's
freedom is won in an epic pod race
qui-gon jinn takes him to the Jedi
Council to ask permission to train him
where his apprenticeship is rejected
after qui-gon jinn is killed in the
final battle and Anakin ultimately helps
the Republic defeat the Trade Federation
the younger Jedi obi-wan Kenobi is
granted permission from the Jedi Council
to train young Anakin in the ways of the
force episode two attack of the clones
brings in an older Anakin
was given the tasks to protect a loyal
Republic senator Padme whose life is in
danger from an assassin who obi-wan
Kenobi tracks later revealing the Jedi
have ordered the creation of a clone
army while all of this is going on
Anakin's mom is murdered
which makes him channel the dark side
this film is political conspiracy to the
fullest after a former Jedi Count Dooku
yes that's his name
Count Dooku betrays his order and sparks
a revolt against the Republic resulting
in an all-out war between his droid army
and the mind controlled Clone Army Owen
- episode 3 which is definitely the most
interesting of the prequel trilogy where
it begins with obi-wan Kenobi and a
little older Anakin rescuing the
Chancellor after he had been captured
the Chancellor takes advantage of
Anakin's temptation to the dark side and
persuades Anakin to kill Count Dooku
later in the film after Anakin is
haunted with nightmares of Padme his
love dying giving childbirth and the
Chancellor bragging to Anakin that he
knows ways to cheat death by harnessing
the dark side Anakin saves the
Chancellor yet again but this time he
saves him from his fellow Jedi's attempt
to arrest the Chancellor after they
found out he is indeed the Sith Lord
that has been behind everything and it
can betrays the Jedi Order in efforts to
save Padme from death the Chancellor
then ordered the execution of order 66
which turned the clone army against
their Jedi commanders which pretty much
wiped out all Jedi and the tense alert
old Anakin to kill the younglings - only
a few Jedi survived including Jedi
Master Yoda in the end obi-wan Kenobi is
forced to battle Anakin on a molten lava
planet where he defeats him leaving him
to die
what's the left of Anakin is Savage by
the Chancellor and he saves Anakin by
putting him in the infamous suit and
Darth Vader is born
Padme goes on to die after giving birth
to twins Luke and Leia who are separated
and hidden from the new evil empire now
after this Romanian chronological order
comes a Star Wars anthology film called
rogue one but for the sake of keeping it
simple let's just call this episode 3.5
taking place many years after episode 3
this follows the story of jyn erso
who was the daughter of Galen er so why
is he important
was the lead engineer for the Empire's
deadliest weapon the Deaf star which is
a planet-sized Space Station with the
capability to destroy planets after
dinner so discovers her dad sabotage his
own creation and she is the only one
that can stop it she teams up with a
group of rebel fighters to go on the
ultimate highest stealing the plans for
the Death Star and giving them to the
Rebel Alliance who was led by Darth
Vader's daughter Princess Leia now we
move on to Episode four which is
literally the first Star Wars movie ever
taking place directly after the events
of rogue or Leia however manages to put
the stolen plan showing the
vulnerability of the Death Star into
r2d2 before Darth Vader attacked the
rebel ship and captured his own daughter
the droids r2d2 and c3po end up escaping
and eventually getting sold to a farmer
on a planet called Tatooine that farmers
adopted son is actually Luke Skywalker
Anakin son after his home and family are
destroyed Luke leaves with a town hermit
who is actually obi-wan Kenobi who has
been watching over young Luke all these
years after realizing what the evil
empire is planning and being in
possession of the droid who has a plans
to destroy the Death Star Luke and
obi-wan team up with an infamous
smuggler named Han Solo who captain's
the fastest ship in the galaxy the
Millennium Falcon and they set off to
deliver the plans to the Rebel Alliance
after being captured by the Empire
obi-wan ultimately gives his life to
give Luke the chance to escape
so he can help the rebels destroy the
Death Star which he successfully does
now episode 5 which is a fan favorite of
the entire franchise after receiving a
message from the force ghost of obi-wan
Kenobi Luke Skywalker sets out to sync
training in ways of the force from Jedi
Master Yoda who was in self-imposed
exile on a planet called Dagobah after
realizing that Leia and Han Solo are in
trouble
Luke ditches his training sessions with
Yoda and heads right into yet another
trap Darth Vader cuts off half of Luke's
arm in a lightsaber duel and then
reveals to Luke that he is indeed his
father yes it goes down in comes episode
6 where Luke and Leia are on a rescue
mission to save Han Solo from Jabba the
Hutt and some very iconic
means the rescue is a success and Luke
travels back to Dagobah to train some
more with Jedi Master Yoda all the while
the Empire is attempting to build
another Death Star our familiar band of
misfits tries to stop it once again Luke
is captured by Darth Vader and brought
to the Emperor the Emperor desiring a
new apprentice tries to persuade Luke to
kill his own father Luke says nah I'm
good bruh after declaring that he is a
Jedi just like his father
Darth Vader kills the Emperor then
redeemed he dies in the arms of his son
the rebels destroy the second attempt of
a Death Star and celebration begins set
thirty years later after those events
comes episode 7 Luke Skywalker is
nowhere to be found
the Rebel Alliance has now called the
resistance led by general Leia and the
Empire has reformed into what is now
called the first order one of the main
bad guys within the first order is kylo
Ren who get this is Han Solo in general
Leia son in comes a new hero for a new
generation Rey who is a force sensitive
woman on a remote planet she teams up
with heroes both old and new to help
stop the first orders plan to build yet
another planet destroying machine
seriously these guys need an
intervention through their successful
efforts to destroy this new weapon
though kylo Ren ultimately kills his own
father han Solo stabbing him with a
lightsaber to end this movie the rebels
discovered the coordinates of Luke
Skywalker's location and Rey is sent
there to seek him out and trained to
become a Jedi now the most recent Star
Wars film - grace movie theatres is
episode 8 this picks up right where
episode 7 left off and Rey convinces a
reluctant stubborn Luke Skywalker in
self-imposed exile sound familiar to
show her how to control her abilities
with the force meanwhile kylo Ren is
leading an assault on what remains of
the resistance back with Rey in Luke
Skywalker after discovering that Luke
was practically responsible for kylo
ren's turned to the dark side Rey leaves
to help the resistance and possibly turn
kylo Ren to the light side it being a
trap
of course orchestrated by the leader of
the first order Supreme Leader Snoke Rey
is brought to Snoke by kylo Ren snow
then starts talking mad
kylo Ren and then Carlos luckily
assassinates him with a lightsaber
leading to an unexpected team-up of Rey
and kylo as they fight off snoke's
remaining guards kylo tries to sway
ready to join him right finally comes to
grips that kylo Ren is irredeemable kylo
leaves a final attack on the resistance
last stand where he encounters the man
that he hates most Luke Skywalker they
have a lightsaber duel and embarrassing
kylo in every way it is revealed that
kylo hasn't been fighting Luke but
merely a force ghost of loop while he
has been on the island he trained Rey
the whole time he was just a diversion
while the last the resistance escaped
with Rey on the Millennium Falcon the
energy it took to create that illusion
was too much for Luke Skywalker's body
to handle and he dies at peace on the
same island he trained Rey now the
resistance lives on and future
generations have hoped that one day the
first order will be stopped so what do
you think Star Wars fans which has been
your favorite movie of the franchise so
far personally mine is episode 4 a new
hope let me know yours down in the
comment section below thanks for taking
the time to watch and if you enjoyed
this video give it a huge thumbs up and
don't forget to subscribe to see more
content like this until next time
nerd river we out here